---

category: rules

world: Linaria

---

# Deities and Demons

The gods are mostly silent, only communicating in whispers and dreams. Where they once spoke in the streets to the common person, the gods appear to have now abandoned the world. Not all gods are celestial in origin, some are mystical forces, others may be demons.

## Priests

Priests claim to hear the gods and bring their teachings to the world, but no one knows the truth of this other than the priests themselves.

[Game effect: For the first seven days, anyone that draws their power from extra-planar beings must make a DC 16 ability check in the morning or spend the day at disadvantage. They can recheck at each short rest.]

As players gain levels, they will be able to awaken their gods. A successful DC 25 - (1/2 * level) (done at level up) will reduce the prep DC by 1. When the prep DC hits 10, the god awakens and no more prep checks are needed.

## The Old Gods

The gods that the party is familiar with are referred to as the Old Gods by knowledgeable or ancient creatures (ancient dragons, very old undead, etc). To anyone that has lived less than a millennium, the Old Gods are mere fairy tales. During the Third Age, the gods fragmented into shards of themselves and their portfolios were scattered across the world. There are no people on Linaria other than the party who worship the Old Gods.

## The New Gods

When the Old Gods disappeared from Linaria and their forms fragmented, other beings picked up aspects of the Old Gods and rose to power. Though not nearly as powerful as the Old Gods, these new deities are the ones being worshipped across Linaria.