---
category: timeline, lore
location: Chaos, The Ethereal Plane
characters: Ai Xiang, Maethirion, Shi Chuan, Fenfang, Rou, Zhaoman, Yanching, Eu-fen, Changguo, Zhiyu, Chao Sheng, Weilang, Yuan Xiang
---
In the time before all material things, when the Outer Planes shone brightly from behind the Ethereal Plane and there were no Material Planes yet, when the Gods were still young and behaved as children, there was Chaos. Within the Chaos, mist and stars swirled as liquid.

Over time, as the gods grew up and the Chaos subsided somewhat, a new presence came to be. Though the mist and stars still moved, they remained fixed in a swirling pattern, and from behind them stepped Ai Xiang. Compared to the other gods, she was already old, having spent aeons mixing the chaos, sewing the stars in place. As the early gods grew and fought and died, Ai Xiang was there, draped in her robes of star studded black. As they died, she would lay a veil of stars and mist over them, giving them peace and harvesting their essence. Over time, the pooling essence around her mixed into the formless chaos of her fabric.

The Chaos, though brought into a semblance of order by Ai Xiang’s embroidery, was still chaos. And with the addition of the essence of dead gods, it convulsed. Over and over again, the Chaos flexed and twisted and convulsed until, at last, Ai Xiang and the Chaos both screamed out in pain and birthed the demon Maethirion.

Maethirion was as chaotic a form as the Chaos that spawned him. From the front, he presented as a conundrum; six horns protruding from his brow and four breasts sprouting from his chest, while his colossal manhood hung between his legs. All four breasts are tattooed with glyphs and runes of the magic that spawned him. From his back, four feathered wings sprout from around another tattooed breast. Seeing Ai Xiang in pain, Maethirion gathered the Chaos to himself and wrapped himself in a robe of it to take some of the burden. He wrapped layer upon layer of Chaos around himself, but it resisted, bending and convulsing and constricting around his wings and body. He was able to gather enough of the Chaos to him that Ai Xiang was able to recover and stitch the last of the Chaos into a robe for him. However, this came with a price, as Ai Xiang’s needle pierced Maethirion’s skin and two drops of blood fell onto his new robe. One drop fell onto the rune for travel, another fell onto a stitch. Maethirion looked at Ai Xiang as the drops melted into the robe and bubbled.

From the drop that landed on the rune for travel, climbed the demon Shi Chuan, already an old man, leaning on a walking stick. He looked upon Ai Xiang and Maethirion with snake-slitted eyes and shook his head. “I take my leave to travel the planes. I will return in time” he said with two forked tongues as he slowly walked away, leaving a sparkling trail behind as he went. To this day, Shi Chuan’s Steps will light the skies at night and herald magical events to come.

From the drop that landed on the stitch, climbed a young woman. As she emerged, the glyphs and runes around the stitch stuck to her skin, tattooing themselves across her body. Ai Xiang smiled as she emerged.

“You remind me of myself when I was younger, Fenfang” she said, pointing at a triumvirate of runes “from Chaos, comes Law.”

Fenfang smiled and, seeing the glyphs on the back of her hands and those on Ai Xiang’s face, said “And from Death, Rest comes at last.”

Ai Xiang nodded. “My child, study your father’s robe. Learn the laws of the universe. Study with me and learn to put pain to rest.” Fenfang smiled and, taking one of Ai Xiang’s veils, shook it out, transforming it into a vest before donning it.

For a time, Ai Xiang, Maethirion, and Fenfang were alone. Maethirion continued to master the Chaos of his robe, while Ai Xiang and Fenfang gathered the essence of dead gods and wove a new tapestry by weaving the essence with Chaos and wrapping it all in tightly ordered stitches. Ai Xiang smiled upon the new creation and named it “Linaria”. Fenfang nodded and examined their work. “Mother, I see some threads sticking out here. I will pull them” she said, reaching for the nearest thread.

Ai Xiang reached for her and said, “No!” But it was too late. Fenfang pulled the first thread and a four-armed figure emerged, collapsing next to them. Ai Xiang and Fenfang backed away from the new figure as Maethirion approached with a concerned look on his face.

“Who is this?” he demanded as the figure stood up.

“I am” said the figure. “I am not sure.” Fenfang, overcoming her initial fear, approached. “Rou” she said. “You are Rou, the first to be rescued by order.” The figure nodded. “I am Rou.”

Ai Xiang looked on in horror as Maethirion scowled and, with a sweep of his arm and a single word, “No”, unmade Rou. Fenfang screamed and reached out to grab Rou’s arm as it peeled away to rejoin the Chaos of Maethirion’s robe. She was only able to hold on to Rou’s little finger and dropped to her knees, overcome by a storm of emotion, weeping into her palms.

“What have you done?” demanded Ai Xiang.

Maethirion turned to her. “Such creation is only the domain of you and me” he ranted. “No other.”

Ai Xiang slapped him across the face, spinning him around and forcing him to stumble away in pain. Drops of blood flew from her hand, pierced by Maethirion’s horns. He stumbled and wobbled, fighting as Ai Xiang’s power tried to force him to die.

The blood landed in Fenfang’s hands, covering Rou’s finger and mixing with her tears. They bubbled and glowed, growing to an eye-searing brightness. Fenfang shut her eyes and threw Rou’s finger away from her as the glow overwhelmed her. Both Ai Xiang and Maethirion shielded their eyes and looked in Fenfang’s direction.

The words “I am Rou” echoed from the glare and Maethirion’s eyes widened in surprise. In the glare, knelt Rou, fully formed once again. Next to them, two more figures stood. A bald fat man helped Rou to their feet. Rou smiled at the fat man. “Thank you, brother. We are, indeed, kin” they said. The fat man laughed. “Yes, Rou. We are kin. And I am Zhaoman.”

The other figure, a mountain of a man, stepped between Fenfang and Maethirion, before bracing a tower shield and raising a brilliant mace. “You shall not harm our sister again” said the man. “I am Yanching and you will never touch her again.”

Maethirion glared at Yanching. “You are but an imperfection in the Chaos” he bellowed. “You are nothing to me. Your … sister? … what is that word? … She is mine!” He stalked up to Yanching’s shield and smashed his hands into it. The shield cracked, spilling searing light from the cracks and forcing Maethirion to step back. In the meantime, Ai Xiang shuffled around Yanching to see to Fenfang, Rou, and their new brothers.

Yanching swung his mace at Maethirion, who smiled and caught it. “Be gone” he said, scraping a glyph over Yanching’s shield. The shield exploded backwards, crashing into and through Yanching. As he crashed to the ground, a fine mist rose from the body. Maethirion stalked up to Yanching’s body but the mist stopped him from approaching. “What is this nonsense?” He demanded. “Ai Xiang! Let me through so I may rejoin his corpse with the Chaos.”

Ai Xiang looked at him. “I am doing nothing to stop you, Maethirion. It must be other.”

Maethirion circled Yanching’s body, held at bay by the mist. “You may not do this, Maethirion” a voice said. “It is not your place to unmake that which others have made.”

He scanned around. “Who said that!? Who mocks me?” He raged.

“I? do not mock” said the voice. “You may refer to this mist as Eu-fen, though.”

“What? The mist speaks? Well, Eu-fen, I AM creation. It is my domain to control Chaos and bring things into being” raged Maethirion.

Ai Xiang, kneeling next to Fenfang, looked sharply at Maethirion. “No, child. It is NOT your domain. The Chaos and I birthed you. And you and I birthed Shi Chuan and Fenfang just as Fenfang and I brought Rou into being.”

Maethirion looked at her in shock. “But” he said, tears forming in his eyes. “But it is our right.”

Ai Xiang shook her head. “No child. Creation is the right of all.”

Maethirion collapsed to his knees.

The mist settled, rose, and settled again around Maethirion’s shoulders. The voice spoke again as its glow increased. “Be at ease” it said as it settled. Maethirion looked around in panic as the mist pressed down on him, forcing him to lay down. Slowly Maethirion’s eyes drooped as he slowly fell asleep under the warmth and pressure of Eu-fen.

Ai Xiang helped Fenfang to her feet and smiled at Zhaoman and Rou. “Go” she said to them. “Help your fallen brother.”

Rou turned to Zhaoman and then Ai Xiang before smiling. Zhaoman smiled broadly and laughed. “Yes, Rou, let us show our appreciation to our brother Yanching.” Together, they walked over to Yanching’s body and knelt next to it. Placing his hands on the broken body, Zhaoman focused his will and nodded. “Severe internal damage. Many of Yanching’s organs are no longer recognizable.” Rou nodded. “We have an idea.”

Carefully, Rou reached into the Chaos and pulled a razor sharp knife into existence and began slicing into Yanching. Zhaoman’s hands glowed softly, ensuring that none of Yanching’s essence escaped as Rou worked. While two hands removed broken organs and bones, the other two began to pull bits of starlight from the Chaos and added bits of themself. “Metal” they said, flexing their contributions into gears, plates, and rods. Soon, Yanching’s missing organs were replaced with glowing clockwork mechanisms. Rou nodded and began to remove more of themself. “Earth” they said, molding those pieces over the mechanisms to replace shattered bones and flesh.

Ai Xiang and Fenfang walked over and knelt beside them. Ai Xiang nodded and smiled. Fenfang looked over Rou’s work and carefully dipped her hand into the pool of essence that Zhaoman was holding. With care and precision, she drew various runes and glyphs over Yanching’s body and nodded. “Armor,” she said as Ai Xiang fed her own essence into the marks. They glowed softly and appeared to melt, pulling the essence from Zhaoman’s hands until it completely covered his body.

Gently, Ai Xiang pulled Fenfang and Rou away before Zhaoman closed his eyes and clapped his hands once. Yanching jolted and convulsed once before groaning and rolling over onto his side.

Ai Xiang clasped Fenfang’s hands. “That was beautiful, my daughter. I was wrong to stop you from pulling the threads on Linaria. Let us examine our work and see what we think of the remaining threads.” Together they headed back to where they had dropped the stitch-wrapped bundle now called Linaria. As they approached, they were shocked to see Maethirion there, pulling loose thread after loose thread from the stitching.

“What are you doing!?” shouted Fenfang, grabbing Linaria from his hands.

He looked up at her with tears in his eyes. “Why?” he asked, looking between them. “Why can I not create anything good from this?!”

Ai Xiang sat down, curling her legs under her. She took his hands in hers, patting them. “It is your nature, dear. You create from the Chaos. Our Fenfang creates from Order.” Using one of her hands to gesture at the threads he had already pulled, she said “And behold. You still create.” The threads twisted and crawled into three softly glowing piles that resolved into more figures.

The first formed into a man curled up on his side. Little crackles of electricity and swirls of snow circles him, while the second formed into a kneeling woman with flowered vines curling around her. As they formed, Zhaoman hurried over with a broad smile, his belly bouncing in delight. “Changguo! Zhiyu! You are here! I felt you in the air but could not find you!” he exclaimed, kneeling at the two piles, embracing each in turn. The man groaned and sat up, looking around. A wild grin split Changguo’s face as he saw Zhaoman. “Zhaoman! Brother!” he exclaimed with a whoop. The woman slowly opened her eyes and smiled, the vines curling up onto her head in a flowered crown. Quietly, she said “Zhaoman. Changguo. Brothers. I am pleased to be in your presence and no longer in darkness.”

The third figure slowly floated upright and resolved into a young man. He looked around. Seeing Maethirion, he sniffed and turned away before saying “I see my uncle, Shi Chuan, is not here. I, Chao Sheng, will find him and bring him to meet his family” and leaping away.

Maethirion looked after Chao Sheng for a time before looking back at Ai Xiang and Fenfang. They shrugged at him and turned back to Linaria. Fenfang examined the bundle, turning it over and over. “I see nothing else that needs to be pulled” she said.

Ai Xiang nodded. “Shall we see what we have created in Linaria, then?” she asked. Fenfang nodded and motioned for Maethirion over. “Please?” she asked, “please, Father, give your blessing to this.”

Maethirion looked at her before glancing at Ai Xiang, who smiled and nodded. He pulled a feather from one of his wings and used the nib to carefully slice the wrappings apart. As the threads split, the solidified Chaos and essence unrolled into a vast plane of mountains and valleys, basins and seas.

Ai Xiang looked at Maethirion and patted his knee.  “You see? You are a part of this creation too. As are all my children.” Slowly, she stood up. “My children. Come look at the world we are all a part of. Come. Come.” she said, waving them close.

Yanching lumbered close, standing between Ai Xiang and Fenfang, glaring at Maethirion. Zhaoman, Changguo, and Zhiyu stood next to Fenfang. Rou stood impassively to the left of Maethirion. Chao Sheng gave a shout and ran up to them, carefully depositing Shi Chuan next to him while Eu-fen floated above them all. “Good” Chao Sheng said, smiling. “We made it.”

Ai Xiang looked around at the circle and nodded. “We are almost all here” she said.  “What do you mean?” asked Maethirion. “Who is not here?”

Ai Xiang smiled. “Between us and Linaria, there is too much for us to remember everything. We need help” she said. Plucking Maethirion’s quill from his hand, she pricked first one index finger and then the other. “Each of you, do the same and add your blood to mine” she said, passing the quill to Maethirion on her right. Maethirion pricked his fingers and added his blood to hers before passing the quill to Rou. Rou passed it Chao Sheng, who gave it to Shi Chuan, and then Zhaoman, Changguo, Zhiyu, Fenfang, and finally Yanching. Ai Xiang’s hands were filled with blood by now and Eu-fen settled around them. She closed her eyes and hummed as the blood coalesced into two balls. Slowly, the balls flattened into cylinders before splitting at the base and again halfway up. The lower split elongated into legs and feet, while the upper splits stretched into arms and hands.

The figure on Ai Xiang’s left hand stepped off and sprouted into a woman wrapped in silver armor with long flowing hair. She knelt on one knee in front of Ai Xiang and picked up the split stitches that had once held Linaria together. These reformed into a rod the length of her arm. “Mothers. Fathers.” she said, kneeling. “What would you have me do?”

Ai Xiang grinned. “Weilang, I would have you learn everything. Record it all. Make it available to any who wish to learn, but protect it at all costs and by any means necessary.” A massive book appeared at Weilang’s feet and she picked up as she stood. “So it will be, grandmother” she said with a smile.

In the meantime, the figure on Ai Xiang’s right hand leapt off and landed in front of Maethirion. “And I?” they asked. “What shall I do?”

Ai Xiang looked at them with concern. “Yuan Xiang, child of my name, you shall find and bring new knowledge to Weilang... by any means necessary.” Another book appeared before Yuan Xiang along with a lantern. They picked up these items and then looked at Maethirion. “Father, your robe? May I wear it, so I may blend in with those I learn from?” Maethirion looked at Ai Xiang, who nodded. Before Maethirion could respond, Yuan Xiang flexed their hand and the robe flowed around their body, leaving Maethirion naked. They looked around and grinned. “Brothers. Sisters. Fathers. Mothers. Thank you” they said, stomping on Linaria once before leaping away.

Below their footprint, the land began to bubble and froth, turning grey and erasing all features.